% vim: set spell:

\chapter{Preface}

I have at times went into extraordinary detail on some low-level matters of the
Linux kernel. These details are provided as reference to the reader, as I know
I wish I had the details at hand during the project.

\section{Audience}

The reader is assumed to be familiar with the concept of a university, i.e. an
institution of higher education and research, aimed at educating scholars and
professionals, granting them degrees, signifying their accomplishments.

The reader is assumed to be familiar with Computer Science, i.e. the study of
computable processes and structures, with the aid of of computers. Preferably,
the reader should hold a Computer Science degree, be, or have been enrolled in
a Computer Science university programme.

\section{Dictionary and Grammar}

Unless otherwise stated, the reader

\section{Legal Disclaimer}

This report references certain legal documents, including Danish laws and
university curricula. As the author is not trained in law, there is no claim as
to the legal soundness of the claims and references made in this report.

A solid attempt has been made at retaining the formulation of the referenced
material, and referencing the most current legal documents, unless this was
hindered by other legal references.

For instance, the shared section of the BSc and MSc curricula for study
programmes at the Faculty of Science, University of
Copenhagen\cite{faelles-del-ENG} is based on Ministerial Order no. 819 as of
June 29, 2010 \cite{bek814}. This document is outdated and has been updated
twice, most recently by Ministerial Order no.  1520 as of December 16,
2013\cite{bek1520}. In this particular case, it is the faculty curricula that
was been deemed to mandate the relevant law to reference.

\section{References}

When looking for referenced material, material published in relevant scientific
journals, yet accessible to the general public, was preferred. To ensure
long-lasting access to publicly available, web-based resources, they were
archived using WebCite\textsuperscript{\textregistered}.

\section{About the Author}

This report is written in third person out of aesthetic considerations, with
the exception of this section.

When referring to ``in practice'', I refer to my own practice as a teaching
assistant in various courses at DIKU, or the perceivable practice of teachers
and teaching assistants around me.

\section{Remarks}

One major deficiency of the current version of this report is that it presents
no concrete sample uses of the system designed. This is primarily due to time
constraints. Concrete sample uses will be prepared for the defence.
